articles/azure-monitor/agents/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent.md, before:

---
title: Configure data collection for the Azure Monitor agent (preview)
description: Describes how to create a data collection rule to collect data from virtual machines using the Azure Monitor agent.
ms.topic: conceptual
author: bwren
ms.author: bwren
ms.date: 03/16/2021

---

# Configure data collection for the Azure Monitor agent (preview)

Data Collection Rules (DCR) define data coming into Azure Monitor and specify where it should be sent. This article describes how to create a data collection rule to collect data from virtual machines using the Azure Monitor agent.

For a complete description of data collection rules, see [Data collection rules in Azure Monitor (preview)](data-collection-rule-overview.md).

> [!NOTE]
> This article describes how to configure data for virtual machines with the Azure Monitor agent which is currently in preview. See [Overview of Azure Monitor agents](agents-overview.md) for a description of agents that are generally available and how to use them to collect data.

## Data collection rule associations

To apply a DCR to a virtual machine, you create an association for the virtual machine. A virtual machine may have an association to multiple DCRs, and a DCR may have multiple virtual machines associated to it. This allows you to define a set of DCRs, each matching a particular requirement, and apply them to only the virtual machines where they apply. 

For example, consider an environment with a set of virtual machines running a line of business application and others running SQL Server. You might have one default data collection rule that applies to all virtual machines and separate data collection rules that collect data specifically for the line of business application and for SQL Server. The associations for the virtual machines to the data collection rules would look similar to the following diagram.

![Diagram shows virtual machines hosting line of business application and SQL Server associated with data collection rules named central-i t-default and lob-app for line of business application and central-i t-default and s q l for SQL Server.](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/associations.png)



## Create rule and association in Azure portal

You can use the Azure portal to create a data collection rule and associate virtual machines in your subscription to that rule. The Azure Monitor agent will be automatically installed and a managed identity created for any virtual machines that don't already have it installed.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> There is currently a known issue where if the data collection rule creates a managed identity on a virtual machine that already has a user-assigned managed identity, the user-assigned identity is disabled.

In the **Azure Monitor** menu in the Azure portal, select **Data Collection Rules** from the **Settings** section. Click **Add** to add a new Data Collection Rule and assignment.

[![Data Collection Rules](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rules.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rules.png#lightbox)

Click **Add** to create a new rule and set of associations. Provide a **Rule name** and specify a **Subscription** and **Resource Group**. This specifies where the DCR will be created. The virtual machines and their associations can be in any subscription or resource group in the tenant.

[![Data Collection Rule Basics](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-basics.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-basics.png#lightbox)

In the **Virtual machines** tab, add virtual machines that should have the Data Collection Rule applied. Both Azure virtual machines and Azure Arc enabled servers in your environment should be listed. The Azure Monitor Agent will be installed on virtual machines that don't already have it installed.

[![Data Collection Rule virtual machines](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-virtual-machines.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-virtual-machines.png#lightbox)

On the **Collect and deliver** tab, click **Add data source** to add a data source and destination set. Select a **Data source type**, and the corresponding details to select will be displayed. For performance counters, you can select from a predefined set of objects and their sampling rate. For events, you can select from a set of logs or facilities and the severity level. 

[![Data source basic](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-basic.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-basic.png#lightbox)


To specify other logs and performance counters from the [currently supported data sources](azure-monitor-agent-overview.md#data-sources-and-destinations) or to filter events using XPath queries, select **Custom**. You can then specify an [XPath ](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xpath_syntax.asp) for any specific values to collect. See [Sample DCR](data-collection-rule-overview.md#sample-data-collection-rule) for examples.

[![Data source custom](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-custom.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-custom.png#lightbox)

On the **Destination** tab, add one or more destinations for the data source. Windows event and Syslog data sources can only send to Azure Monitor Logs. Performance counters can send to both Azure Monitor Metrics and Azure Monitor Logs.

[![Destination](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-destination.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-destination.png#lightbox)

Click **Add Data Source** and then **Review + create** to review the details of the data collection rule and association with the set of VMs. Click **Create** to create it.

> [!NOTE]
> After the data collection rule and associations have been created, it might take up to 5 minutes for data to be sent to the destinations.

## Limit data collection with custom XPath queries
Since you're charged for any data collected in a Log Analytics workspace, you should collect only the data that you require. Using basic configuration in the Azure portal, you only have limited ability to filter events to collect. For Application and System logs, this is all logs with a particular severity. For Security logs, this is all audit success or all audit failure logs.

To specify additional filters, you must use Custom configuration and specify an XPath that filters out the events you don't. XPath entries are written in the form `LogName!XPathQuery`. For example, you may want to return only events from the Application event log with an event ID of 1035. The XPathQuery for these events would be `*[System[EventID=1035]]`. Since you want to retrieve the events from the Application event log, the XPath would be `Application!*[System[EventID=1035]]`

See [XPath 1.0 limitations](/windows/win32/wes/consuming-events#xpath-10-limitations) for a list of limitations in the XPath supported by Windows event log.

> [!TIP]
> Use the PowerShell cmdlet `Get-WinEvent` with the `FilterXPath` parameter to test the validity of an XPathQuery. The following script shows an example.
> 
> ```powershell
> $XPath = '*[System[EventID=1035]]'
> Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Application' -FilterXPath $XPath
> ```
>
> - If events are returned, the query is valid.
> - If you receive the message *No events were found that match the specified selection criteria.*, the query may be valid, but there are no matching events on the local machine.
> - If you receive the message *The specified query is invalid* , the query syntax is invalid. 

The following table shows examples for filtering events using a custom XPath.

| Description |  XPath |
|:---|:---|
| Collect only System events with Event ID = 4648 |  `System!*[System[EventID=4648]]`
| Collect only System events with Event ID = 4648 and a process name of consent.exe | `Security!*[System[(EventID=4648)]] and *[EventData[Data[@Name='ProcessName']='C:\Windows\System32\consent.exe']]` |
| Collect all Critical, Error, Warning, and Information events from the System event log except for Event ID = 6 (Driver loaded) |  `System!*[System[(Level=1 or Level=2 or Level=3) and (EventID != 6)]]` |
| Collect all success and failure Security events except for Event ID 4624 (Successful logon) |  `Security!*[System[(band(Keywords,13510798882111488)) and (EventID != 4624)]]` |


## Create rule and association using REST API

Follow the steps below to create a data collection rule and associations using the REST API.

1. Manually create the DCR file using the JSON format shown in [Sample DCR](data-collection-rule-overview.md#sample-data-collection-rule).

2. Create the rule using the [REST API](/rest/api/monitor/datacollectionrules/create#examples).

3. Create an association for each virtual machine to the data collection rule using the [REST API](/rest/api/monitor/datacollectionruleassociations/create#examples).


## Create association using Resource Manager template

You can create an association between an Azure virtual machine or Azure Arc enabled server using a Resource Manager template. See [Resource Manager template samples for data collection rules in Azure Monitor](./resource-manager-data-collection-rules.md) for sample templates.



## Next steps

- Learn more about the [Azure Monitor Agent](azure-monitor-agent-overview.md).
- Learn more about [data collection rules](data-collection-rule-overview.md).

Commit message:

Adding region limitation when creating DCR

articles/azure-monitor/agents/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent.md, after:

---
title: Configure data collection for the Azure Monitor agent (preview)
description: Describes how to create a data collection rule to collect data from virtual machines using the Azure Monitor agent.
ms.topic: conceptual
author: bwren
ms.author: bwren
ms.date: 03/16/2021

---

# Configure data collection for the Azure Monitor agent (preview)

Data Collection Rules (DCR) define data coming into Azure Monitor and specify where it should be sent. This article describes how to create a data collection rule to collect data from virtual machines using the Azure Monitor agent.

For a complete description of data collection rules, see [Data collection rules in Azure Monitor (preview)](data-collection-rule-overview.md).

> [!NOTE]
> This article describes how to configure data for virtual machines with the Azure Monitor agent which is currently in preview. See [Overview of Azure Monitor agents](agents-overview.md) for a description of agents that are generally available and how to use them to collect data.

## Data collection rule associations

To apply a DCR to a virtual machine, you create an association for the virtual machine. A virtual machine may have an association to multiple DCRs, and a DCR may have multiple virtual machines associated to it. This allows you to define a set of DCRs, each matching a particular requirement, and apply them to only the virtual machines where they apply. 

For example, consider an environment with a set of virtual machines running a line of business application and others running SQL Server. You might have one default data collection rule that applies to all virtual machines and separate data collection rules that collect data specifically for the line of business application and for SQL Server. The associations for the virtual machines to the data collection rules would look similar to the following diagram.

![Diagram shows virtual machines hosting line of business application and SQL Server associated with data collection rules named central-i t-default and lob-app for line of business application and central-i t-default and s q l for SQL Server.](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/associations.png)



## Create rule and association in Azure portal

You can use the Azure portal to create a data collection rule and associate virtual machines in your subscription to that rule. The Azure Monitor agent will be automatically installed and a managed identity created for any virtual machines that don't already have it installed.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> There is currently a known issue where if the data collection rule creates a managed identity on a virtual machine that already has a user-assigned managed identity, the user-assigned identity is disabled.

> [!NOTE]
> If you wish to send data to Log Analytics, you must create the data collection rule in the **same region** where your Log Analytics workspace resides. The rule can be associated to machines in other supported region(s).

In the **Azure Monitor** menu in the Azure portal, select **Data Collection Rules** from the **Settings** section. Click **Add** to add a new Data Collection Rule and assignment.

[![Data Collection Rules](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rules.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rules.png#lightbox)

Click **Add** to create a new rule and set of associations. Provide a **Rule name** and specify a **Subscription** and **Resource Group**. This specifies where the DCR will be created. The virtual machines and their associations can be in any subscription or resource group in the tenant.

[![Data Collection Rule Basics](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-basics.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-basics.png#lightbox)

In the **Virtual machines** tab, add virtual machines that should have the Data Collection Rule applied. Both Azure virtual machines and Azure Arc enabled servers in your environment should be listed. The Azure Monitor Agent will be installed on virtual machines that don't already have it installed.

[![Data Collection Rule virtual machines](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-virtual-machines.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-virtual-machines.png#lightbox)

On the **Collect and deliver** tab, click **Add data source** to add a data source and destination set. Select a **Data source type**, and the corresponding details to select will be displayed. For performance counters, you can select from a predefined set of objects and their sampling rate. For events, you can select from a set of logs or facilities and the severity level. 

[![Data source basic](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-basic.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-basic.png#lightbox)


To specify other logs and performance counters from the [currently supported data sources](azure-monitor-agent-overview.md#data-sources-and-destinations) or to filter events using XPath queries, select **Custom**. You can then specify an [XPath ](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xpath_syntax.asp) for any specific values to collect. See [Sample DCR](data-collection-rule-overview.md#sample-data-collection-rule) for examples.

[![Data source custom](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-custom.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-data-source-custom.png#lightbox)

On the **Destination** tab, add one or more destinations for the data source. Windows event and Syslog data sources can only send to Azure Monitor Logs. Performance counters can send to both Azure Monitor Metrics and Azure Monitor Logs.

[![Destination](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-destination.png)](media/data-collection-rule-azure-monitor-agent/data-collection-rule-destination.png#lightbox)

Click **Add Data Source** and then **Review + create** to review the details of the data collection rule and association with the set of VMs. Click **Create** to create it.

> [!NOTE]
> After the data collection rule and associations have been created, it might take up to 5 minutes for data to be sent to the destinations.

## Limit data collection with custom XPath queries
Since you're charged for any data collected in a Log Analytics workspace, you should collect only the data that you require. Using basic configuration in the Azure portal, you only have limited ability to filter events to collect. For Application and System logs, this is all logs with a particular severity. For Security logs, this is all audit success or all audit failure logs.

To specify additional filters, you must use Custom configuration and specify an XPath that filters out the events you don't. XPath entries are written in the form `LogName!XPathQuery`. For example, you may want to return only events from the Application event log with an event ID of 1035. The XPathQuery for these events would be `*[System[EventID=1035]]`. Since you want to retrieve the events from the Application event log, the XPath would be `Application!*[System[EventID=1035]]`

See [XPath 1.0 limitations](/windows/win32/wes/consuming-events#xpath-10-limitations) for a list of limitations in the XPath supported by Windows event log.

> [!TIP]
> Use the PowerShell cmdlet `Get-WinEvent` with the `FilterXPath` parameter to test the validity of an XPathQuery. The following script shows an example.
> 
> ```powershell
> $XPath = '*[System[EventID=1035]]'
> Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Application' -FilterXPath $XPath
> ```
>
> - If events are returned, the query is valid.
> - If you receive the message *No events were found that match the specified selection criteria.*, the query may be valid, but there are no matching events on the local machine.
> - If you receive the message *The specified query is invalid* , the query syntax is invalid. 

The following table shows examples for filtering events using a custom XPath.

| Description |  XPath |
|:---|:---|
| Collect only System events with Event ID = 4648 |  `System!*[System[EventID=4648]]`
| Collect only System events with Event ID = 4648 and a process name of consent.exe | `Security!*[System[(EventID=4648)]] and *[EventData[Data[@Name='ProcessName']='C:\Windows\System32\consent.exe']]` |
| Collect all Critical, Error, Warning, and Information events from the System event log except for Event ID = 6 (Driver loaded) |  `System!*[System[(Level=1 or Level=2 or Level=3) and (EventID != 6)]]` |
| Collect all success and failure Security events except for Event ID 4624 (Successful logon) |  `Security!*[System[(band(Keywords,13510798882111488)) and (EventID != 4624)]]` |


## Create rule and association using REST API

Follow the steps below to create a data collection rule and associations using the REST API.

> [!NOTE]
> If you wish to send data to Log Analytics, you must create the data collection rule in the **same region** where your Log Analytics workspace resides. The rule can be associated to machines in other supported region(s).

1. Manually create the DCR file using the JSON format shown in [Sample DCR](data-collection-rule-overview.md#sample-data-collection-rule).

2. Create the rule using the [REST API](/rest/api/monitor/datacollectionrules/create#examples).

3. Create an association for each virtual machine to the data collection rule using the [REST API](/rest/api/monitor/datacollectionruleassociations/create#examples).


## Create association using Resource Manager template

> [!NOTE]
> If you wish to send data to Log Analytics, you must create the data collection rule in the **same region** where your Log Analytics workspace resides. The rule can be associated to machines in other supported region(s).

You can create an association between an Azure virtual machine or Azure Arc enabled server using a Resource Manager template. See [Resource Manager template samples for data collection rules in Azure Monitor](./resource-manager-data-collection-rules.md) for sample templates.



## Next steps

- Learn more about the [Azure Monitor Agent](azure-monitor-agent-overview.md).
- Learn more about [data collection rules](data-collection-rule-overview.md).
