articles/azure-monitor/vm/vminsights-dependency-agent-maintenance.md, before:

---
title: How to upgrade the Azure Monitor for VMs Dependency agent
description: This article describes how to upgrade the Azure Monitor for VMs Dependency agent using command-line, setup wizard, and other methods.
ms.subservice: 
ms.topic: conceptual
author: bwren
ms.author: bwren
ms.date: 04/16/2020

---

# How to upgrade the Azure Monitor for VMs Dependency agent

After initial deployment of the Azure Monitor for VMs Dependency agent, updates are released that include bug fixes or support of new features or functionality.  This article helps you understand the methods available and how to perform the upgrade manually or through automation.

## Upgrade options 

The Dependency agent for Windows and Linux can be upgraded to the latest release manually or automatically depending on the deployment scenario and environment the machine is running in. The following methods can be used to upgrade the agent.

|Environment |Installation method |Upgrade method |
|------------|--------------------|---------------|
|Azure VM | Dependency agent VM extension for [Windows](../../virtual-machines/extensions/agent-dependency-windows.md) and [Linux](../../virtual-machines/extensions/agent-dependency-linux.md) | Agent is automatically upgraded by default unless you configured your Azure Resource Manager template to opt out by setting the property *autoUpgradeMinorVersion* to **false**. The upgrade for minor version where auto upgrade is disabled, and a major version upgrade follow the same method - uninstall and reinstall the extension. |
| Custom Azure VM images | Manual install of Dependency agent for Windows/Linux | Updating VMs to the newest version of the agent needs to be performed from the command line running the Windows installer package or Linux self-extracting and installable shell script bundle.|
| Non-Azure VMs | Manual install of Dependency agent for Windows/Linux | Updating VMs to the newest version of the agent needs to be performed from the command line running the Windows installer package or Linux self-extracting and installable shell script bundle. |

## Upgrade Windows agent 

To update the agent on a Windows VM to the latest version not installed using the Dependency agent VM extension, you either run from the Command Prompt, script or other automation solution, or by using the InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe Setup Wizard.  

You can download the latest version of the Windows agent from [here](https://aka.ms/dependencyagentwindows).

### Using the Setup Wizard

1. Sign on to the computer with an account that has administrative rights.

2. Execute **InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe** to start the Setup Wizard.
   
3. Follow the **Dependency Agent Setup** wizard to uninstall the previous version of the dependency agent and then install the latest version.


### From the command line

1. Sign on to the computer with an account that has administrative rights.

2. Run the following command.

    ```dos
    InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe /S /RebootMode=manual
    ```

    The `/RebootMode=manual` parameter prevents the upgrade from automatically rebooting the machine if some processes are using files from the previous version and have a lock on them. 

3. To confirm the upgrade was successful, check the `install.log` for detailed setup information. The log directory is *%Programfiles%\Microsoft Dependency Agent\logs*.

## Upgrade Linux agent 

Upgrade from prior versions of the Dependency agent on Linux is supported and performed following the same command as a new installation.

You can download the latest version of the Linux agent from [here](https://aka.ms/dependencyagentlinux).

1. Sign on to the computer with an account that has administrative rights.

2. Run the following command as root`sh InstallDependencyAgent-Linux64.bin -s`. 

If the Dependency agent fails to start, check the logs for detailed error information. On Linux agents, the log directory is */var/opt/microsoft/dependency-agent/log*. 

## Next steps

If you want to stop monitoring your VMs for a period of time or remove Azure Monitor for VMs entirely, see [Disable monitoring of your VMs in Azure Monitor for VMs](../vm/vminsights-optout.md).

Commit message:

Rename Azure Monitor for VMs to VM insights

articles/azure-monitor/vm/vminsights-dependency-agent-maintenance.md, after:

---
title: How to upgrade the VM insights Dependency agent
description: This article describes how to upgrade the VM insights Dependency agent using command-line, setup wizard, and other methods.
ms.subservice: 
ms.topic: conceptual
author: bwren
ms.author: bwren
ms.date: 04/16/2020

---

# How to upgrade the VM insights Dependency agent

After initial deployment of the VM insights Dependency agent, updates are released that include bug fixes or support of new features or functionality.  This article helps you understand the methods available and how to perform the upgrade manually or through automation.

## Upgrade options 

The Dependency agent for Windows and Linux can be upgraded to the latest release manually or automatically depending on the deployment scenario and environment the machine is running in. The following methods can be used to upgrade the agent.

|Environment |Installation method |Upgrade method |
|------------|--------------------|---------------|
|Azure VM | Dependency agent VM extension for [Windows](../../virtual-machines/extensions/agent-dependency-windows.md) and [Linux](../../virtual-machines/extensions/agent-dependency-linux.md) | Agent is automatically upgraded by default unless you configured your Azure Resource Manager template to opt out by setting the property *autoUpgradeMinorVersion* to **false**. The upgrade for minor version where auto upgrade is disabled, and a major version upgrade follow the same method - uninstall and reinstall the extension. |
| Custom Azure VM images | Manual install of Dependency agent for Windows/Linux | Updating VMs to the newest version of the agent needs to be performed from the command line running the Windows installer package or Linux self-extracting and installable shell script bundle.|
| Non-Azure VMs | Manual install of Dependency agent for Windows/Linux | Updating VMs to the newest version of the agent needs to be performed from the command line running the Windows installer package or Linux self-extracting and installable shell script bundle. |

## Upgrade Windows agent 

To update the agent on a Windows VM to the latest version not installed using the Dependency agent VM extension, you either run from the Command Prompt, script or other automation solution, or by using the InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe Setup Wizard.  

You can download the latest version of the Windows agent from [here](https://aka.ms/dependencyagentwindows).

### Using the Setup Wizard

1. Sign on to the computer with an account that has administrative rights.

2. Execute **InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe** to start the Setup Wizard.
   
3. Follow the **Dependency Agent Setup** wizard to uninstall the previous version of the dependency agent and then install the latest version.


### From the command line

1. Sign on to the computer with an account that has administrative rights.

2. Run the following command.

    ```dos
    InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe /S /RebootMode=manual
    ```

    The `/RebootMode=manual` parameter prevents the upgrade from automatically rebooting the machine if some processes are using files from the previous version and have a lock on them. 

3. To confirm the upgrade was successful, check the `install.log` for detailed setup information. The log directory is *%Programfiles%\Microsoft Dependency Agent\logs*.

## Upgrade Linux agent 

Upgrade from prior versions of the Dependency agent on Linux is supported and performed following the same command as a new installation.

You can download the latest version of the Linux agent from [here](https://aka.ms/dependencyagentlinux).

1. Sign on to the computer with an account that has administrative rights.

2. Run the following command as root`sh InstallDependencyAgent-Linux64.bin -s`. 

If the Dependency agent fails to start, check the logs for detailed error information. On Linux agents, the log directory is */var/opt/microsoft/dependency-agent/log*. 

## Next steps

If you want to stop monitoring your VMs for a period of time or remove VM insights entirely, see [Disable monitoring of your VMs in VM insights](../vm/vminsights-optout.md).
