articles/azure-monitor/alerts/action-groups.md, before:

---
title: Create and manage action groups in the Azure portal
description: Learn how to create and manage action groups in the Azure portal.
author: dkamstra
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 04/07/2021
ms.author: dukek
---
# Create and manage action groups in the Azure portal
An action group is a collection of notification preferences defined by the owner of an Azure subscription. Azure Monitor and Service Health alerts use action groups to notify users that an alert has been triggered. Various alerts may use the same action group or different action groups depending on the user's requirements. 

This article shows you how to create and manage action groups in the Azure portal.

Each action is made up of the following properties:

* **Type**: The notification or action performed. Examples include sending a voice call, SMS, email; or triggering various types of automated actions. See types later in this article.
* **Name**: A unique identifier within the action group.
* **Details**: The corresponding details that vary by *type*.

For information on how to use Azure Resource Manager templates to configure action groups, see [Action group Resource Manager templates](./action-groups-create-resource-manager-template.md).

## Create an action group by using the Azure portal

1. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for and select **Monitor**. The **Monitor** pane consolidates all your monitoring settings and data in one view.

1. Select **Alerts**, then select **Manage actions**.

    ![Manage Actions button](./media/action-groups/manage-action-groups.png)
    
1. Select **Add action group**, and fill in the relevant fields in the wizard experience.

    ![The "Add action group" command](./media/action-groups/add-action-group.PNG)

### Configure basic action group settings

Under **Project details**:

Select the **Subscription** and **Resource group** in which the action group is saved.

Under **Instance details**:

1. Enter an **Action group name**.

1. Enter a **Display name**. The display name is used in place of a full action group name when notifications are sent using this group.

      ![The Add action group" dialog box](./media/action-groups/action-group-1-basics.png)


### Configure notifications

1. Click the **Next: Notifications >** button to move to the **Notifications** tab, or select the **Notifications** tab at the top of the screen.

1. Define a list of notifications to send when an alert is triggered. Provide the following for each notification:

    a. **Notification type**: Select the type of notification you want to send. The available options are:
      * Email Azure Resource Manager Role - Send an email to users assigned to certain subscription-level ARM roles.
      * Email/SMS/Push/Voice - Send these notification types to specific recipients.
    
    b. **Name**: Enter a unique name for the notification.

    c. **Details**: Based on the selected notification type, enter an email address, phone number, etc.
    
    d. **Common alert schema**: You can choose to enable the [common alert schema](./alerts-common-schema.md), which provides the advantage of having a single extensible and unified alert payload across all the alert services in Azure Monitor.

    ![The Notifications tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-2-notifications.png)
    
### Configure actions

1. Click the **Next: Actions >** button to move to the **Actions** tab, or select the **Actions** tab at the top of the screen.

1. Define a list of actions to trigger when an alert is triggered. Provide the following for each action:

    a. **Action type**: Select Automation Runbook, Azure Function, ITSM, Logic App, Secure Webhook, Webhook.
    
    b. **Name**: Enter a unique name for the action.

    c. **Details**: Based on the action type, enter a webhook URI, Azure app, ITSM connection, or Automation runbook. For ITSM Action, additionally specify **Work Item** and other fields your ITSM tool requires.
    
    d. **Common alert schema**: You can choose to enable the [common alert schema](./alerts-common-schema.md), which provides the advantage of having a single extensible and unified alert payload across all the alert services in Azure Monitor.
    
    ![The Actions tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-3-actions.png)

### Create the action group

1. You can explore the **Tags** settings if you like. This lets you associate key/value pairs to the action group for your categorization and is a feature available for any Azure resource.

    ![The Tags tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-4-tags.png)
    
1. Click **Review + create** to review the settings. This will do a quick validation of your inputs to make sure all the required fields are selected. If there are issues, they'll be reported here. Once you've reviewed the settings, click **Create** to provision the action group.
    
    ![The Review + create tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-5-review.png)

> [!NOTE]
> When you configure an action to notify a person by email or SMS, they receive a confirmation indicating they have been added to the action group.

## Manage your action groups

After you create an action group, you can view **Action groups** by selecting **Manage actions** from the **Alerts** landing page in **Monitor** pane. Select the action group you want to manage to:

* Add, edit, or remove actions.
* Delete the action group.

## Action specific information

> [!NOTE]
> See [Subscription Service Limits for Monitoring](../../azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits.md#azure-monitor-limits) for numeric limits on each of the items below.  

### Automation Runbook
Refer to the [Azure subscription service limits](../../azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits.md) for limits on Runbook payloads.

You may have a limited number of Runbook actions in an Action Group. 

### Azure app Push Notifications
Enable push notifications to the [Azure mobile app](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/azure-portal/mobile-app/) by providing the email address you use as your account ID when configuring the Azure mobile app.

You may have a limited number of Azure app actions in an Action Group.

### Email
Emails will be sent from the following email addresses. Ensure that your email filtering is configured appropriately
- azure-noreply@microsoft.com
- azureemail-noreply@microsoft.com
- alerts-noreply@mail.windowsazure.com

You may have a limited number of email actions in an Action Group. See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) article.

### Email Azure Resource Manager Role
Send email to the members of the subscription's role. Email will only be sent to **Azure AD user** members of the role. Email will not be sent to Azure AD groups or service principals.

A notification email is sent only to the *primary email* address.

If you are not receiving Notifications on your *primary email*, then you can try following steps:

1. In Azure portal go to *Active Directory*.
2. Click on All users (in left pane), you will see list of users (in right pane).
3. Select the user for which you want to review the *primary email* information.

  :::image type="content" source="media/action-groups/active-directory-user-profile.png" alt-text="Example on how to review user profile." border="true":::

4. In User profile under Contact Info if "Email" tab is blank then click on *edit* button on the top and add your *primary email* and hit *save* button on the top.

  :::image type="content" source="media/action-groups/active-directory-add-primary-email.png" alt-text="Example on how to add primary email." border="true":::

You may have a limited number of email actions in an Action Group. See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) article.

While setting up *Email ARM Role* you need to make sure below 3 conditions are met:

1. The type of the entity being assigned to the role needs to be **“User”**.
2. The assignment needs to be done at the **subscription** level.
3. The user needs to have an email configured in their **AAD profile**. 


### Function
Calls an existing HTTP trigger endpoint in [Azure Functions](../../azure-functions/functions-get-started.md). To handle a request, your endpoint must handle the HTTP POST verb.

You may have a limited number of Function actions in an Action Group.

### ITSM
ITSM Action requires an ITSM Connection. Learn how to create an [ITSM Connection](./itsmc-overview.md).

You may have a limited number of ITSM actions in an Action Group. 

### Logic App
You may have a limited number of Logic App actions in an Action Group.

### Secure Webhook
The Action Groups Secure Webhook action enables you to take advantage of Azure Active Directory to secure the connection between your action group and your protected web API (webhook endpoint). The overall workflow for taking advantage of this functionality is described below. For an overview of Azure AD Applications and service principals, see [Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) overview](../../active-directory/develop/v2-overview.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Using the webhook action requires that the target webhook endpoint either doesn't require details of the alert to function successfully or it's capable of parsing the alert context information that's provided as part of the POST operation. If the webhook endpoint can't handle the alert context information on its own, you can use a solution like a [Logic App action](./action-groups-logic-app.md) for a custom manipulation of the alert context information to match the webhook's expected data format.

1. Create an Azure AD Application for your protected web API. See [Protected web API: App registration](../../active-directory/develop/scenario-protected-web-api-app-registration.md).
    - Configure your protected API to be [called by a daemon app](../../active-directory/develop/scenario-protected-web-api-app-registration.md#if-your-web-api-is-called-by-a-daemon-app).
    
2. Enable Action Groups to use your Azure AD Application.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You must be a member of the [Azure AD Application Administrator role](../../active-directory/roles/permissions-reference.md#all-roles) to execute this script.
    
    - Modify the PowerShell script's Connect-AzureAD call to use your Azure AD Tenant ID.
    - Modify the PowerShell script's variable $myAzureADApplicationObjectId to use the Object ID of your Azure AD Application.
    - Run the modified script.
    
3. Configure the Action Group Secure Webhook action.
    - Copy the value $myApp.ObjectId from the script and enter it in the Application Object ID field in the Webhook action definition.
    
    ![Secure Webhook action](./media/action-groups/action-groups-secure-webhook.png)

#### Secure Webhook PowerShell Script

```PowerShell
Connect-AzureAD -TenantId "<provide your Azure AD tenant ID here>"
    
# This is your Azure AD Application's ObjectId. 
$myAzureADApplicationObjectId = "<the Object ID of your Azure AD Application>"
    
# This is the Action Groups Azure AD AppId
$actionGroupsAppId = "461e8683-5575-4561-ac7f-899cc907d62a"
    
# This is the name of the new role we will add to your Azure AD Application
$actionGroupRoleName = "ActionGroupsSecureWebhook"
    
# Create an application role of given name and description
Function CreateAppRole([string] $Name, [string] $Description)
{
    $appRole = New-Object Microsoft.Open.AzureAD.Model.AppRole
    $appRole.AllowedMemberTypes = New-Object System.Collections.Generic.List[string]
    $appRole.AllowedMemberTypes.Add("Application");
    $appRole.DisplayName = $Name
    $appRole.Id = New-Guid
    $appRole.IsEnabled = $true
    $appRole.Description = $Description
    $appRole.Value = $Name;
    return $appRole
}
    
# Get my Azure AD Application, it's roles and service principal
$myApp = Get-AzureADApplication -ObjectId $myAzureADApplicationObjectId
$myAppRoles = $myApp.AppRoles
$actionGroupsSP = Get-AzureADServicePrincipal -Filter ("appId eq '" + $actionGroupsAppId + "'")

Write-Host "App Roles before addition of new role.."
Write-Host $myAppRoles
    
# Create the role if it doesn't exist
if ($myAppRoles -match "ActionGroupsSecureWebhook")
{
    Write-Host "The Action Groups role is already defined.`n"
}
else
{
    $myServicePrincipal = Get-AzureADServicePrincipal -Filter ("appId eq '" + $myApp.AppId + "'")
    
    # Add our new role to the Azure AD Application
    $newRole = CreateAppRole -Name $actionGroupRoleName -Description "This is a role for Action Groups to join"
    $myAppRoles.Add($newRole)
    Set-AzureADApplication -ObjectId $myApp.ObjectId -AppRoles $myAppRoles
}
    
# Create the service principal if it doesn't exist
if ($actionGroupsSP -match "AzNS AAD Webhook")
{
    Write-Host "The Service principal is already defined.`n"
}
else
{
    # Create a service principal for the Action Groups Azure AD Application and add it to the role
    $actionGroupsSP = New-AzureADServicePrincipal -AppId $actionGroupsAppId
}
    
New-AzureADServiceAppRoleAssignment -Id $myApp.AppRoles[0].Id -ResourceId $myServicePrincipal.ObjectId -ObjectId $actionGroupsSP.ObjectId -PrincipalId $actionGroupsSP.ObjectId
    
Write-Host "My Azure AD Application (ObjectId): " + $myApp.ObjectId
Write-Host "My Azure AD Application's Roles"
Write-Host $myApp.AppRoles
```

### SMS
See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) and [SMS alert behavior](./alerts-sms-behavior.md) for additional important information. 

You may have a limited number of SMS actions in an Action Group.

> [!NOTE]
> If the Azure portal action group user interface does not let you select your country/region code, then SMS is not supported for your country/region.  If your country/region code is not available, you can vote to have your country/region added at [user voice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/913690-azure-monitor/suggestions/36663181-add-more-country-codes-for-sms-alerting-and-voice). In the meantime, a work around is to have your action group call a webhook to a third-party SMS provider with support in your country/region.  

Pricing for supported countries/regions is listed in the [Azure Monitor pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/).

**List of Countries where SMS Notification is supported**

| Country Code | Country Name |
|:---|:---|
| 61 | Australia |
| 43 | Austria |
| 32 | Belgium |
| 55 | Brazil |
| 1	|Canada |
| 56 | Chile |
| 86 | China |
| 420 | Czech Republic |
| 45 | Denmark |
| 372 | Estonia |
| 358 | Finland |
| 33 | France |
| 49 | Germany |
| 852 | Hong Kong |
| 91 | India |
| 353 | Ireland |
| 972 | Israel |
| 39 | Italy |
| 81 | Japan |
| 352 | Luxembourg |
| 60 | Malaysia |
| 52 | Mexico |
| 31 | Netherlands |
| 64 | New Zealand |
| 47 | Norway |
| 351 | Portugal |
| 1 | Puerto Rico |
| 40 | Romania |
| 65 | Singapore |
| 27 | South Africa |
| 82 | South Korea |
| 34 | Spain |
| 41 | Switzerland |
| 886 | Taiwan |
| 44 | United Kingdom |
| 1 | United States |

### Voice
See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) article for additional important behavior.

You may have a limited number of Voice actions in an Action Group.

> [!NOTE]
> If the Azure portal action group user interface does not let you select your country/region code, then voice calls are not supported for your country/region. If your country/region code is not available, you can vote to have your country/region added at [user voice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/913690-azure-monitor/suggestions/36663181-add-more-country-codes-for-sms-alerting-and-voice).  In the meantime, a work around is to have your action group call a webhook to a third-party voice call provider with support in your country/region.  
> Only Country code supported today in Azure portal action group for Voice Notification is +1(United States). 

Pricing for supported countries/regions is listed in the [Azure Monitor pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/).

### Webhook

> [!NOTE]
> Using the webhook action requires that the target webhook endpoint either doesn't require details of the alert to function successfully or it's capable of parsing the alert context information that's provided as part of the POST operation. 
> If the webhook endpoint can't handle the alert context information on its own, you can use a solution like a [Logic App action](./action-groups-logic-app.md) for a custom manipulation of the alert context information to match the webhook's expected data format.

Webhooks are processed using the following rules
- A webhook call is attempted a maximum of 3 times.
- The call will be retried if a response is not received within the timeout period or one of the following HTTP status codes is returned: 408, 429, 503 or 504.
- The first call will wait 10 seconds for a response.
- The second and third attempts will wait 30 seconds for a response.
- After the 3 attempts to call the webhook have failed no action group will call the endpoint for 15 minutes.

Please see [Action Group IP Addresses](../app/ip-addresses.md) for source IP address ranges.


## Next steps
* Learn more about [SMS alert behavior](./alerts-sms-behavior.md).  
* Gain an [understanding of the activity log alert webhook schema](./activity-log-alerts-webhook.md).  
* Learn more about [ITSM Connector](./itsmc-overview.md).
* Learn more about [rate limiting](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) on alerts.
* Get an [overview of activity log alerts](./alerts-overview.md), and learn how to receive alerts.  
* Learn how to [configure alerts whenever a service health notification is posted](../../service-health/alerts-activity-log-service-notifications-portal.md).

Commit message:

Updated Note on Arm Role

articles/azure-monitor/alerts/action-groups.md, after:

---
title: Create and manage action groups in the Azure portal
description: Learn how to create and manage action groups in the Azure portal.
author: dkamstra
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 04/07/2021
ms.author: dukek
---
# Create and manage action groups in the Azure portal
An action group is a collection of notification preferences defined by the owner of an Azure subscription. Azure Monitor and Service Health alerts use action groups to notify users that an alert has been triggered. Various alerts may use the same action group or different action groups depending on the user's requirements. 

This article shows you how to create and manage action groups in the Azure portal.

Each action is made up of the following properties:

* **Type**: The notification or action performed. Examples include sending a voice call, SMS, email; or triggering various types of automated actions. See types later in this article.
* **Name**: A unique identifier within the action group.
* **Details**: The corresponding details that vary by *type*.

For information on how to use Azure Resource Manager templates to configure action groups, see [Action group Resource Manager templates](./action-groups-create-resource-manager-template.md).

## Create an action group by using the Azure portal

1. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for and select **Monitor**. The **Monitor** pane consolidates all your monitoring settings and data in one view.

1. Select **Alerts**, then select **Manage actions**.

    ![Manage Actions button](./media/action-groups/manage-action-groups.png)
    
1. Select **Add action group**, and fill in the relevant fields in the wizard experience.

    ![The "Add action group" command](./media/action-groups/add-action-group.PNG)

### Configure basic action group settings

Under **Project details**:

Select the **Subscription** and **Resource group** in which the action group is saved.

Under **Instance details**:

1. Enter an **Action group name**.

1. Enter a **Display name**. The display name is used in place of a full action group name when notifications are sent using this group.

      ![The Add action group" dialog box](./media/action-groups/action-group-1-basics.png)


### Configure notifications

1. Click the **Next: Notifications >** button to move to the **Notifications** tab, or select the **Notifications** tab at the top of the screen.

1. Define a list of notifications to send when an alert is triggered. Provide the following for each notification:

    a. **Notification type**: Select the type of notification you want to send. The available options are:
      * Email Azure Resource Manager Role - Send an email to users assigned to certain subscription-level ARM roles.
      * Email/SMS/Push/Voice - Send these notification types to specific recipients.
    
    b. **Name**: Enter a unique name for the notification.

    c. **Details**: Based on the selected notification type, enter an email address, phone number, etc.
    
    d. **Common alert schema**: You can choose to enable the [common alert schema](./alerts-common-schema.md), which provides the advantage of having a single extensible and unified alert payload across all the alert services in Azure Monitor.

    ![The Notifications tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-2-notifications.png)
    
### Configure actions

1. Click the **Next: Actions >** button to move to the **Actions** tab, or select the **Actions** tab at the top of the screen.

1. Define a list of actions to trigger when an alert is triggered. Provide the following for each action:

    a. **Action type**: Select Automation Runbook, Azure Function, ITSM, Logic App, Secure Webhook, Webhook.
    
    b. **Name**: Enter a unique name for the action.

    c. **Details**: Based on the action type, enter a webhook URI, Azure app, ITSM connection, or Automation runbook. For ITSM Action, additionally specify **Work Item** and other fields your ITSM tool requires.
    
    d. **Common alert schema**: You can choose to enable the [common alert schema](./alerts-common-schema.md), which provides the advantage of having a single extensible and unified alert payload across all the alert services in Azure Monitor.
    
    ![The Actions tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-3-actions.png)

### Create the action group

1. You can explore the **Tags** settings if you like. This lets you associate key/value pairs to the action group for your categorization and is a feature available for any Azure resource.

    ![The Tags tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-4-tags.png)
    
1. Click **Review + create** to review the settings. This will do a quick validation of your inputs to make sure all the required fields are selected. If there are issues, they'll be reported here. Once you've reviewed the settings, click **Create** to provision the action group.
    
    ![The Review + create tab](./media/action-groups/action-group-5-review.png)

> [!NOTE]
> When you configure an action to notify a person by email or SMS, they receive a confirmation indicating they have been added to the action group.

## Manage your action groups

After you create an action group, you can view **Action groups** by selecting **Manage actions** from the **Alerts** landing page in **Monitor** pane. Select the action group you want to manage to:

* Add, edit, or remove actions.
* Delete the action group.

## Action specific information

> [!NOTE]
> See [Subscription Service Limits for Monitoring](../../azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits.md#azure-monitor-limits) for numeric limits on each of the items below.  

### Automation Runbook
Refer to the [Azure subscription service limits](../../azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits.md) for limits on Runbook payloads.

You may have a limited number of Runbook actions in an Action Group. 

### Azure app Push Notifications
Enable push notifications to the [Azure mobile app](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/azure-portal/mobile-app/) by providing the email address you use as your account ID when configuring the Azure mobile app.

You may have a limited number of Azure app actions in an Action Group.

### Email
Emails will be sent from the following email addresses. Ensure that your email filtering is configured appropriately
- azure-noreply@microsoft.com
- azureemail-noreply@microsoft.com
- alerts-noreply@mail.windowsazure.com

You may have a limited number of email actions in an Action Group. See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) article.

### Email Azure Resource Manager Role
Send email to the members of the subscription's role. Email will only be sent to **Azure AD user** members of the role. Email will not be sent to Azure AD groups or service principals.

A notification email is sent only to the *primary email* address.

If you are not receiving Notifications on your *primary email*, then you can try following steps:

1. In Azure portal go to *Active Directory*.
2. Click on All users (in left pane), you will see list of users (in right pane).
3. Select the user for which you want to review the *primary email* information.

  :::image type="content" source="media/action-groups/active-directory-user-profile.png" alt-text="Example on how to review user profile." border="true":::

4. In User profile under Contact Info if "Email" tab is blank then click on *edit* button on the top and add your *primary email* and hit *save* button on the top.

  :::image type="content" source="media/action-groups/active-directory-add-primary-email.png" alt-text="Example on how to add primary email." border="true":::

You may have a limited number of email actions in an Action Group. See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) article.

While setting up *Email ARM Role* you need to make sure below 3 conditions are met:

1. The type of the entity being assigned to the role needs to be **“User”**.
2. The assignment needs to be done at the **subscription** level.
3. The user needs to have an email configured in their **AAD profile**. 

> [!NOTE]
> It can take upto **24 hours** for customer to start receiving notifications after they add new ARM Role to their subscription.

### Function
Calls an existing HTTP trigger endpoint in [Azure Functions](../../azure-functions/functions-get-started.md). To handle a request, your endpoint must handle the HTTP POST verb.

You may have a limited number of Function actions in an Action Group.

### ITSM
ITSM Action requires an ITSM Connection. Learn how to create an [ITSM Connection](./itsmc-overview.md).

You may have a limited number of ITSM actions in an Action Group. 

### Logic App
You may have a limited number of Logic App actions in an Action Group.

### Secure Webhook
The Action Groups Secure Webhook action enables you to take advantage of Azure Active Directory to secure the connection between your action group and your protected web API (webhook endpoint). The overall workflow for taking advantage of this functionality is described below. For an overview of Azure AD Applications and service principals, see [Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) overview](../../active-directory/develop/v2-overview.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Using the webhook action requires that the target webhook endpoint either doesn't require details of the alert to function successfully or it's capable of parsing the alert context information that's provided as part of the POST operation. If the webhook endpoint can't handle the alert context information on its own, you can use a solution like a [Logic App action](./action-groups-logic-app.md) for a custom manipulation of the alert context information to match the webhook's expected data format.

1. Create an Azure AD Application for your protected web API. See [Protected web API: App registration](../../active-directory/develop/scenario-protected-web-api-app-registration.md).
    - Configure your protected API to be [called by a daemon app](../../active-directory/develop/scenario-protected-web-api-app-registration.md#if-your-web-api-is-called-by-a-daemon-app).
    
2. Enable Action Groups to use your Azure AD Application.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You must be a member of the [Azure AD Application Administrator role](../../active-directory/roles/permissions-reference.md#all-roles) to execute this script.
    
    - Modify the PowerShell script's Connect-AzureAD call to use your Azure AD Tenant ID.
    - Modify the PowerShell script's variable $myAzureADApplicationObjectId to use the Object ID of your Azure AD Application.
    - Run the modified script.
    
3. Configure the Action Group Secure Webhook action.
    - Copy the value $myApp.ObjectId from the script and enter it in the Application Object ID field in the Webhook action definition.
    
    ![Secure Webhook action](./media/action-groups/action-groups-secure-webhook.png)

#### Secure Webhook PowerShell Script

```PowerShell
Connect-AzureAD -TenantId "<provide your Azure AD tenant ID here>"
    
# This is your Azure AD Application's ObjectId. 
$myAzureADApplicationObjectId = "<the Object ID of your Azure AD Application>"
    
# This is the Action Groups Azure AD AppId
$actionGroupsAppId = "461e8683-5575-4561-ac7f-899cc907d62a"
    
# This is the name of the new role we will add to your Azure AD Application
$actionGroupRoleName = "ActionGroupsSecureWebhook"
    
# Create an application role of given name and description
Function CreateAppRole([string] $Name, [string] $Description)
{
    $appRole = New-Object Microsoft.Open.AzureAD.Model.AppRole
    $appRole.AllowedMemberTypes = New-Object System.Collections.Generic.List[string]
    $appRole.AllowedMemberTypes.Add("Application");
    $appRole.DisplayName = $Name
    $appRole.Id = New-Guid
    $appRole.IsEnabled = $true
    $appRole.Description = $Description
    $appRole.Value = $Name;
    return $appRole
}
    
# Get my Azure AD Application, it's roles and service principal
$myApp = Get-AzureADApplication -ObjectId $myAzureADApplicationObjectId
$myAppRoles = $myApp.AppRoles
$actionGroupsSP = Get-AzureADServicePrincipal -Filter ("appId eq '" + $actionGroupsAppId + "'")

Write-Host "App Roles before addition of new role.."
Write-Host $myAppRoles
    
# Create the role if it doesn't exist
if ($myAppRoles -match "ActionGroupsSecureWebhook")
{
    Write-Host "The Action Groups role is already defined.`n"
}
else
{
    $myServicePrincipal = Get-AzureADServicePrincipal -Filter ("appId eq '" + $myApp.AppId + "'")
    
    # Add our new role to the Azure AD Application
    $newRole = CreateAppRole -Name $actionGroupRoleName -Description "This is a role for Action Groups to join"
    $myAppRoles.Add($newRole)
    Set-AzureADApplication -ObjectId $myApp.ObjectId -AppRoles $myAppRoles
}
    
# Create the service principal if it doesn't exist
if ($actionGroupsSP -match "AzNS AAD Webhook")
{
    Write-Host "The Service principal is already defined.`n"
}
else
{
    # Create a service principal for the Action Groups Azure AD Application and add it to the role
    $actionGroupsSP = New-AzureADServicePrincipal -AppId $actionGroupsAppId
}
    
New-AzureADServiceAppRoleAssignment -Id $myApp.AppRoles[0].Id -ResourceId $myServicePrincipal.ObjectId -ObjectId $actionGroupsSP.ObjectId -PrincipalId $actionGroupsSP.ObjectId
    
Write-Host "My Azure AD Application (ObjectId): " + $myApp.ObjectId
Write-Host "My Azure AD Application's Roles"
Write-Host $myApp.AppRoles
```

### SMS
See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) and [SMS alert behavior](./alerts-sms-behavior.md) for additional important information. 

You may have a limited number of SMS actions in an Action Group.

> [!NOTE]
> If the Azure portal action group user interface does not let you select your country/region code, then SMS is not supported for your country/region.  If your country/region code is not available, you can vote to have your country/region added at [user voice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/913690-azure-monitor/suggestions/36663181-add-more-country-codes-for-sms-alerting-and-voice). In the meantime, a work around is to have your action group call a webhook to a third-party SMS provider with support in your country/region.  

Pricing for supported countries/regions is listed in the [Azure Monitor pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/).

**List of Countries where SMS Notification is supported**

| Country Code | Country Name |
|:---|:---|
| 61 | Australia |
| 43 | Austria |
| 32 | Belgium |
| 55 | Brazil |
| 1	|Canada |
| 56 | Chile |
| 86 | China |
| 420 | Czech Republic |
| 45 | Denmark |
| 372 | Estonia |
| 358 | Finland |
| 33 | France |
| 49 | Germany |
| 852 | Hong Kong |
| 91 | India |
| 353 | Ireland |
| 972 | Israel |
| 39 | Italy |
| 81 | Japan |
| 352 | Luxembourg |
| 60 | Malaysia |
| 52 | Mexico |
| 31 | Netherlands |
| 64 | New Zealand |
| 47 | Norway |
| 351 | Portugal |
| 1 | Puerto Rico |
| 40 | Romania |
| 65 | Singapore |
| 27 | South Africa |
| 82 | South Korea |
| 34 | Spain |
| 41 | Switzerland |
| 886 | Taiwan |
| 44 | United Kingdom |
| 1 | United States |

### Voice
See the [rate limiting information](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) article for additional important behavior.

You may have a limited number of Voice actions in an Action Group.

> [!NOTE]
> If the Azure portal action group user interface does not let you select your country/region code, then voice calls are not supported for your country/region. If your country/region code is not available, you can vote to have your country/region added at [user voice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/913690-azure-monitor/suggestions/36663181-add-more-country-codes-for-sms-alerting-and-voice).  In the meantime, a work around is to have your action group call a webhook to a third-party voice call provider with support in your country/region.  
> Only Country code supported today in Azure portal action group for Voice Notification is +1(United States). 

Pricing for supported countries/regions is listed in the [Azure Monitor pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/).

### Webhook

> [!NOTE]
> Using the webhook action requires that the target webhook endpoint either doesn't require details of the alert to function successfully or it's capable of parsing the alert context information that's provided as part of the POST operation. 
> If the webhook endpoint can't handle the alert context information on its own, you can use a solution like a [Logic App action](./action-groups-logic-app.md) for a custom manipulation of the alert context information to match the webhook's expected data format.

Webhooks are processed using the following rules
- A webhook call is attempted a maximum of 3 times.
- The call will be retried if a response is not received within the timeout period or one of the following HTTP status codes is returned: 408, 429, 503 or 504.
- The first call will wait 10 seconds for a response.
- The second and third attempts will wait 30 seconds for a response.
- After the 3 attempts to call the webhook have failed no action group will call the endpoint for 15 minutes.

Please see [Action Group IP Addresses](../app/ip-addresses.md) for source IP address ranges.


## Next steps
* Learn more about [SMS alert behavior](./alerts-sms-behavior.md).  
* Gain an [understanding of the activity log alert webhook schema](./activity-log-alerts-webhook.md).  
* Learn more about [ITSM Connector](./itsmc-overview.md).
* Learn more about [rate limiting](./alerts-rate-limiting.md) on alerts.
* Get an [overview of activity log alerts](./alerts-overview.md), and learn how to receive alerts.  
* Learn how to [configure alerts whenever a service health notification is posted](../../service-health/alerts-activity-log-service-notifications-portal.md).
