articles/azure-monitor/alerts/itsmc-connections.md, before:

---
title: IT Service Management Connector in Azure Monitor
description: This article provides information about how to connect your ITSM products/services with the IT Service Management Connector (ITSMC) in Azure Monitor to centrally monitor and manage the ITSM work items.
ms.topic: conceptual
author: nolavime
ms.author: v-jysur
ms.date: 05/12/2020

---

# Connect ITSM products/services with IT Service Management Connector
This article provides information about how to configure the connection between your ITSM product/service and the IT Service Management Connector (ITSMC) in Log Analytics to centrally manage your work items. For more information about ITSMC,  see [Overview](./itsmc-overview.md).

The following ITSM products/services are supported. Select the product to view detailed information about how to connect the product to ITSMC.

- [ServiceNow](./itsmc-connections-servicenow.md)
- [System Center Service Manager](./itsmc-connections-scsm.md)
- [Cherwell](./itsmc-connections-cherwell.md)
- [Provance](./itsmc-connections-provance.md)

> [!NOTE]
> We propose our Cherwell and Provance customers to use [Webhook action](./action-groups.md#webhook) to Cherwell and Provance endpoint as another solution to the integration.

## Next steps

* [Troubleshooting problems in ITSM Connector](./itsmc-resync-servicenow.md)

Commit message:

IP ranges for ITSM partners connections

articles/azure-monitor/alerts/itsmc-connections.md, after:

---
title: IT Service Management Connector in Azure Monitor
description: This article provides information about how to connect your ITSM products/services with the IT Service Management Connector (ITSMC) in Azure Monitor to centrally monitor and manage the ITSM work items.
ms.topic: conceptual
author: nolavime
ms.author: v-jysur
ms.date: 05/12/2020

---

# Connect ITSM products/services with IT Service Management Connector
This article provides information about how to configure the connection between your ITSM product/service and the IT Service Management Connector (ITSMC) in Log Analytics to centrally manage your work items. For more information about ITSMC,  see [Overview](./itsmc-overview.md).

The following ITSM products/services are supported. Select the product to view detailed information about how to connect the product to ITSMC.

- [ServiceNow](./itsmc-connections-servicenow.md)
- [System Center Service Manager](./itsmc-connections-scsm.md)
- [Cherwell](./itsmc-connections-cherwell.md)
- [Provance](./itsmc-connections-provance.md)

> [!NOTE]
> We propose our Cherwell and Provance customers to use [Webhook action](./action-groups.md#webhook) to Cherwell and Provance endpoint as another solution to the integration.

# IP ranges for ITSM partners connections
In order to whitelist the ITSM IP addresses in order to allow ITSM connections from partners ITSM tools, we recommend the  to whitelist the whole public IP range of Azure region where their LogAnalytics workspace belongs. [details here](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=56519)
For regions EUS/WEU/EUS2/WUS2/US South Central the customer can whitelist ActionGroup network tag only.

## Next steps

* [Troubleshooting problems in ITSM Connector](./itsmc-resync-servicenow.md)
