articles/azure-monitor/app/java-in-process-agent.md, before:

---
title: Azure Monitor Application Insights Java
description: Application performance monitoring for Java applications running in any environment without requiring code modification. Distributed tracing and application map.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/29/2020
author: MS-jgol
ms.custom: devx-track-java
ms.author: jgol
---

# Java codeless application monitoring Azure Monitor Application Insights

Java codeless application monitoring is all about simplicity - there are no code changes, the Java agent can be enabled through just a couple of configuration changes.

 The Java agent works in any environment, and allows you to monitor all of your Java applications. In other words, whether you are running your Java apps on VMs, on-premises, in AKS, on Windows, Linux - you name it, the Java 3.0 agent will monitor your app.

Adding the Application Insights Java SDK to your application is no longer required, as the 3.0 agent auto-collects requests, dependencies and logs all on its own.

You can still send custom telemetry from your application. The 3.0 agent will track and correlate it along with all of the auto-collected telemetry.

The 3.0 agent supports Java 8 and above.

## Quickstart

**1. Download the agent**

> [!WARNING]
> **If you are upgrading from 3.0 Preview**
>
> Please review all the [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md) carefully,
> as the json structure has completely changed, in addition to the file name itself which went all lowercase.

> [!WARNING]
> **If you are upgrading from 3.0.x**
>
> The operation names and request telemetry names are now prefixed by the http method (`GET`, `POST`, etc.).
> This can affect custom dashboards or alerts if they relied on the previous unprefixed values.
> See the [3.1.0 release notes](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/releases/tag/3.1.0)
> for more details.

Download [applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/releases/download/3.1.0/applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar)

**2. Point the JVM to the agent**

Add `-javaagent:path/to/applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar` to your application's JVM args

Typical JVM args include `-Xmx512m` and `-XX:+UseG1GC`. So if you know where to add these, then you already know where to add this.

For additional help with configuring your application's JVM args, please see [Tips for updating your JVM args](./java-standalone-arguments.md).

**3. Point the agent to your Application Insights resource**

If you do not already have an Application Insights resource, you can create a new one by following the steps in the [resource creation guide](./create-new-resource.md).

Point the agent to your Application Insights resource, either by setting an environment variable:

```
APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING=InstrumentationKey=...
```

Or by creating a configuration file named `applicationinsights.json`, and placing it in the same directory as `applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar`, with the following content:

```json
{
  "connectionString": "InstrumentationKey=..."
}
```

You can find your connection string in your Application Insights resource:

:::image type="content" source="media/java-ipa/connection-string.png" alt-text="Application Insights Connection String":::

**4. That's it!**

Now start up your application and go to your Application Insights resource in the Azure portal to see your monitoring data.

> [!NOTE]
> It may take a couple of minutes for your monitoring data to show up in the portal.


## Configuration options

In the `applicationinsights.json` file, you can additionally configure:

* Cloud role name
* Cloud role instance
* Sampling
* JMX metrics
* Custom dimensions
* Telemetry processors (preview)
* Auto-collected logging
* Auto-collected Micrometer metrics (including Spring Boot Actuator metrics)
* Heartbeat
* HTTP Proxy
* Self-diagnostics

See [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md) for full details.

## Auto-collected requests

* JMS Consumers
* Kafka Consumers
* Netty/WebFlux
* Servlets
* Spring Scheduling

## Auto-collected dependencies

Auto-collected dependencies plus downstream distributed trace propagation:

* Apache HttpClient and HttpAsyncClient
* gRPC
* java.net.HttpURLConnection
* JMS
* Kafka
* Netty client
* OkHttp

Auto-collected dependencies (without downstream distributed trace propagation):

* Cassandra
* JDBC
* MongoDB (async and sync)
* Redis (Lettuce and Jedis)

## Auto-collected logs

* java.util.logging
* Log4j (including MDC properties)
* SLF4J/Logback (including MDC properties)

## Auto-collected metrics

* Micrometer (including Spring Boot Actuator metrics)
* JMX Metrics

## Azure SDKs (preview)

See the [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md#auto-collected-azure-sdk-telemetry-preview)
to enable this preview feature and auto-collect the telemetry emitted by these Azure SDKs:

* [App Configuration](/java/api/overview/azure/data-appconfiguration-readme) 1.1.10+
* [Cognitive Search](/java/api/overview/azure/search-documents-readme) 11.3.0+
* [Communication Chat](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-chat-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Communication Common](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-common-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Communication Identity](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-identity-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Communication SMS](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-sms-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Cosmos DB](/java/api/overview/azure/cosmos-readme) 4.13.0+
* [Event Grid](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-eventgrid-readme) 4.0.0+
* [Event Hubs](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-eventhubs-readme) 5.6.0+
* [Event Hubs - Azure Blob Storage Checkpoint Store](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-eventhubs-checkpointstore-blob-readme) 1.5.1+
* [Form Recognizer](/java/api/overview/azure/ai-formrecognizer-readme) 3.0.6+
* [Identity](/java/api/overview/azure/identity-readme) 1.2.4+
* [Key Vault - Certificates](/java/api/overview/azure/security-keyvault-certificates-readme) 4.1.6+
* [Key Vault - Keys](/java/api/overview/azure/security-keyvault-keys-readme) 4.2.6+
* [Key Vault - Secrets](/java/api/overview/azure/security-keyvault-secrets-readme) 4.2.6+
* [Service Bus](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-servicebus-readme) 7.1.0+
* [Text Analytics](/java/api/overview/azure/ai-textanalytics-readme) 5.0.4+

[//]: # "the above names and links scraped from https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/releases/latest/java.html"
[//]: # "and version sync'd manually against the oldest version in maven central built on azure-core 1.14.0"
[//]: # ""
[//]: # "var table = document.querySelector('#tg-sb-content > div > table')"
[//]: # "var str = ''"
[//]: # "for (var i = 1, row; row = table.rows[i]; i++) {"
[//]: # "  var name = row.cells[0].getElementsByTagName('div')[0].textContent.trim()"
[//]: # "  var stableRow = row.cells[1]"
[//]: # "  var versionBadge = stableRow.querySelector('.badge')"
[//]: # "  if (!versionBadge) {"
[//]: # "    continue"
[//]: # "  }"
[//]: # "  var version = versionBadge.textContent.trim()"
[//]: # "  var link = stableRow.querySelectorAll('a')[2].href"
[//]: # "  str += '* [' + name + '](' + link + ') ' + version"
[//]: # "}"
[//]: # "console.log(str)"

## Send custom telemetry from your application

Our goal in 3.0+ is to allow you to send your custom telemetry using standard APIs.

We support Micrometer, popular logging frameworks, and the Application Insights Java 2.x SDK so far.
Application Insights Java 3.0 automatically captures the telemetry sent through these APIs,
and correlates it with auto-collected telemetry.

### Supported custom telemetry

The table below represents currently supported custom telemetry types that you can enable to supplement the Java 3.0 agent. To summarize, custom metrics are supported through micrometer, custom exceptions and traces can be enabled through logging frameworks, and any type of the custom telemetry is supported through the [Application Insights Java 2.x SDK](#send-custom-telemetry-using-the-2x-sdk).

|                     | Micrometer | Log4j, logback, JUL | 2.x SDK |
|---------------------|------------|---------------------|---------|
| **Custom Events**   |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Custom Metrics**  |  Yes       |                     |  Yes    |
| **Dependencies**    |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Exceptions**      |            |  Yes                |  Yes    |
| **Page Views**      |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Requests**        |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Traces**          |            |  Yes                |  Yes    |

We're not planning to release an SDK with Application Insights 3.0 at this time.

Application Insights Java 3.0 is already listening for telemetry that is sent to the Application Insights Java 2.x SDK. This functionality is an important part of the upgrade story for existing 2.x users, and it fills an important gap in our custom telemetry support until the OpenTelemetry API is GA.

### Send custom metrics using Micrometer

Add Micrometer to your application:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.micrometer</groupId>
  <artifactId>micrometer-core</artifactId>
  <version>1.6.1</version>
</dependency>
```

Use the Micrometer [global registry](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_global_registry) to create a meter:

```java
static final Counter counter = Metrics.counter("test_counter");
```

and use that to record metrics:

```java
counter.increment();
```

### Send custom traces and exceptions using your favorite logging framework

Log4j, Logback, and java.util.logging are auto-instrumented,
and logging performed via these logging frameworks is auto-collected as trace and exception telemetry.

By default, logging is only collected when that logging is performed at the INFO level or above.
See the [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md#auto-collected-logging) for how to change this level.

If you want to attach custom dimensions to your logs, you can use
[Log4j 1.2 MDC](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/apidocs/org/apache/log4j/MDC.html),
[Log4j 2 MDC](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/thread-context.html),
or [Logback MDC](http://logback.qos.ch/manual/mdc.html),
and Application Insights Java 3.0 will automatically capture those MDC properties as custom dimensions
on your trace and exception telemetry.

### Send custom telemetry using the 2.x SDK

Add `applicationinsights-core-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-core</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

Create a TelemetryClient:

  ```java
static final TelemetryClient telemetryClient = new TelemetryClient();
```

and use that to send custom telemetry:

##### Events

```java
telemetryClient.trackEvent("WinGame");
```

##### Metrics

```java
telemetryClient.trackMetric("queueLength", 42.0);
```

##### Dependencies

```java
boolean success = false;
long startTime = System.currentTimeMillis();
try {
    success = dependency.call();
} finally {
    long endTime = System.currentTimeMillis();
    RemoteDependencyTelemetry telemetry = new RemoteDependencyTelemetry();
    telemetry.setSuccess(success);
    telemetry.setTimestamp(new Date(startTime));
    telemetry.setDuration(new Duration(endTime - startTime));
    telemetryClient.trackDependency(telemetry);
}
```

##### Logs

```java
telemetryClient.trackTrace(message, SeverityLevel.Warning, properties);
```

##### Exceptions

```java
try {
    ...
} catch (Exception e) {
    telemetryClient.trackException(e);
}
```

### Add request custom dimensions using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.2 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and add custom dimensions in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
requestTelemetry.getProperties().put("mydimension", "myvalue");
```

### Set the request telemetry user_Id using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.2 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and set the `user_Id` in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
requestTelemetry.getContext().getUser().setId("myuser");
```

### Override the request telemetry name using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.2 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and set the name in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
requestTelemetry.setName("myname");
```

### Get the request telemetry Id and the operation Id using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.3 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and get the request telemetry Id and the operation Id in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
String requestId = requestTelemetry.getId();
String operationId = requestTelemetry.getContext().getOperation().getId();
```

Commit message:

Add link back to old 2.x docs

articles/azure-monitor/app/java-in-process-agent.md, after:

---
title: Azure Monitor Application Insights Java
description: Application performance monitoring for Java applications running in any environment without requiring code modification. Distributed tracing and application map.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/29/2020
author: MS-jgol
ms.custom: devx-track-java
ms.author: jgol
---

# Java codeless application monitoring Azure Monitor Application Insights

> [!NOTE]
> If you are looking for the old 2.x docs, go [here](./java-2x-get-started.md).

Java codeless application monitoring is all about simplicity - there are no code changes, the Java agent can be enabled through just a couple of configuration changes.

 The Java agent works in any environment, and allows you to monitor all of your Java applications. In other words, whether you are running your Java apps on VMs, on-premises, in AKS, on Windows, Linux - you name it, the Java 3.0 agent will monitor your app.

Adding the Application Insights Java SDK to your application is no longer required, as the 3.0 agent auto-collects requests, dependencies and logs all on its own.

You can still send custom telemetry from your application. The 3.0 agent will track and correlate it along with all of the auto-collected telemetry.

The 3.0 agent supports Java 8 and above.

## Quickstart

**1. Download the agent**

> [!WARNING]
> **If you are upgrading from 3.0 Preview**
>
> Please review all the [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md) carefully,
> as the json structure has completely changed, in addition to the file name itself which went all lowercase.

> [!WARNING]
> **If you are upgrading from 3.0.x**
>
> The operation names and request telemetry names are now prefixed by the http method (`GET`, `POST`, etc.).
> This can affect custom dashboards or alerts if they relied on the previous unprefixed values.
> See the [3.1.0 release notes](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/releases/tag/3.1.0)
> for more details.

Download [applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/releases/download/3.1.0/applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar)

**2. Point the JVM to the agent**

Add `-javaagent:path/to/applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar` to your application's JVM args

Typical JVM args include `-Xmx512m` and `-XX:+UseG1GC`. So if you know where to add these, then you already know where to add this.

For additional help with configuring your application's JVM args, please see [Tips for updating your JVM args](./java-standalone-arguments.md).

**3. Point the agent to your Application Insights resource**

If you do not already have an Application Insights resource, you can create a new one by following the steps in the [resource creation guide](./create-new-resource.md).

Point the agent to your Application Insights resource, either by setting an environment variable:

```
APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING=InstrumentationKey=...
```

Or by creating a configuration file named `applicationinsights.json`, and placing it in the same directory as `applicationinsights-agent-3.1.0.jar`, with the following content:

```json
{
  "connectionString": "InstrumentationKey=..."
}
```

You can find your connection string in your Application Insights resource:

:::image type="content" source="media/java-ipa/connection-string.png" alt-text="Application Insights Connection String":::

**4. That's it!**

Now start up your application and go to your Application Insights resource in the Azure portal to see your monitoring data.

> [!NOTE]
> It may take a couple of minutes for your monitoring data to show up in the portal.


## Configuration options

In the `applicationinsights.json` file, you can additionally configure:

* Cloud role name
* Cloud role instance
* Sampling
* JMX metrics
* Custom dimensions
* Telemetry processors (preview)
* Auto-collected logging
* Auto-collected Micrometer metrics (including Spring Boot Actuator metrics)
* Heartbeat
* HTTP Proxy
* Self-diagnostics

See [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md) for full details.

## Auto-collected requests

* JMS Consumers
* Kafka Consumers
* Netty/WebFlux
* Servlets
* Spring Scheduling

## Auto-collected dependencies

Auto-collected dependencies plus downstream distributed trace propagation:

* Apache HttpClient and HttpAsyncClient
* gRPC
* java.net.HttpURLConnection
* JMS
* Kafka
* Netty client
* OkHttp

Auto-collected dependencies (without downstream distributed trace propagation):

* Cassandra
* JDBC
* MongoDB (async and sync)
* Redis (Lettuce and Jedis)

## Auto-collected logs

* java.util.logging
* Log4j (including MDC properties)
* SLF4J/Logback (including MDC properties)

## Auto-collected metrics

* Micrometer (including Spring Boot Actuator metrics)
* JMX Metrics

## Azure SDKs (preview)

See the [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md#auto-collected-azure-sdk-telemetry-preview)
to enable this preview feature and auto-collect the telemetry emitted by these Azure SDKs:

* [App Configuration](/java/api/overview/azure/data-appconfiguration-readme) 1.1.10+
* [Cognitive Search](/java/api/overview/azure/search-documents-readme) 11.3.0+
* [Communication Chat](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-chat-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Communication Common](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-common-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Communication Identity](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-identity-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Communication SMS](/java/api/overview/azure/communication-sms-readme) 1.0.0+
* [Cosmos DB](/java/api/overview/azure/cosmos-readme) 4.13.0+
* [Event Grid](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-eventgrid-readme) 4.0.0+
* [Event Hubs](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-eventhubs-readme) 5.6.0+
* [Event Hubs - Azure Blob Storage Checkpoint Store](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-eventhubs-checkpointstore-blob-readme) 1.5.1+
* [Form Recognizer](/java/api/overview/azure/ai-formrecognizer-readme) 3.0.6+
* [Identity](/java/api/overview/azure/identity-readme) 1.2.4+
* [Key Vault - Certificates](/java/api/overview/azure/security-keyvault-certificates-readme) 4.1.6+
* [Key Vault - Keys](/java/api/overview/azure/security-keyvault-keys-readme) 4.2.6+
* [Key Vault - Secrets](/java/api/overview/azure/security-keyvault-secrets-readme) 4.2.6+
* [Service Bus](/java/api/overview/azure/messaging-servicebus-readme) 7.1.0+
* [Text Analytics](/java/api/overview/azure/ai-textanalytics-readme) 5.0.4+

[//]: # "the above names and links scraped from https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/releases/latest/java.html"
[//]: # "and version sync'd manually against the oldest version in maven central built on azure-core 1.14.0"
[//]: # ""
[//]: # "var table = document.querySelector('#tg-sb-content > div > table')"
[//]: # "var str = ''"
[//]: # "for (var i = 1, row; row = table.rows[i]; i++) {"
[//]: # "  var name = row.cells[0].getElementsByTagName('div')[0].textContent.trim()"
[//]: # "  var stableRow = row.cells[1]"
[//]: # "  var versionBadge = stableRow.querySelector('.badge')"
[//]: # "  if (!versionBadge) {"
[//]: # "    continue"
[//]: # "  }"
[//]: # "  var version = versionBadge.textContent.trim()"
[//]: # "  var link = stableRow.querySelectorAll('a')[2].href"
[//]: # "  str += '* [' + name + '](' + link + ') ' + version"
[//]: # "}"
[//]: # "console.log(str)"

## Send custom telemetry from your application

Our goal in 3.0+ is to allow you to send your custom telemetry using standard APIs.

We support Micrometer, popular logging frameworks, and the Application Insights Java 2.x SDK so far.
Application Insights Java 3.0 automatically captures the telemetry sent through these APIs,
and correlates it with auto-collected telemetry.

### Supported custom telemetry

The table below represents currently supported custom telemetry types that you can enable to supplement the Java 3.0 agent. To summarize, custom metrics are supported through micrometer, custom exceptions and traces can be enabled through logging frameworks, and any type of the custom telemetry is supported through the [Application Insights Java 2.x SDK](#send-custom-telemetry-using-the-2x-sdk).

|                     | Micrometer | Log4j, logback, JUL | 2.x SDK |
|---------------------|------------|---------------------|---------|
| **Custom Events**   |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Custom Metrics**  |  Yes       |                     |  Yes    |
| **Dependencies**    |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Exceptions**      |            |  Yes                |  Yes    |
| **Page Views**      |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Requests**        |            |                     |  Yes    |
| **Traces**          |            |  Yes                |  Yes    |

We're not planning to release an SDK with Application Insights 3.0 at this time.

Application Insights Java 3.0 is already listening for telemetry that is sent to the Application Insights Java 2.x SDK. This functionality is an important part of the upgrade story for existing 2.x users, and it fills an important gap in our custom telemetry support until the OpenTelemetry API is GA.

### Send custom metrics using Micrometer

Add Micrometer to your application:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.micrometer</groupId>
  <artifactId>micrometer-core</artifactId>
  <version>1.6.1</version>
</dependency>
```

Use the Micrometer [global registry](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_global_registry) to create a meter:

```java
static final Counter counter = Metrics.counter("test_counter");
```

and use that to record metrics:

```java
counter.increment();
```

### Send custom traces and exceptions using your favorite logging framework

Log4j, Logback, and java.util.logging are auto-instrumented,
and logging performed via these logging frameworks is auto-collected as trace and exception telemetry.

By default, logging is only collected when that logging is performed at the INFO level or above.
See the [configuration options](./java-standalone-config.md#auto-collected-logging) for how to change this level.

If you want to attach custom dimensions to your logs, you can use
[Log4j 1.2 MDC](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/apidocs/org/apache/log4j/MDC.html),
[Log4j 2 MDC](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/thread-context.html),
or [Logback MDC](http://logback.qos.ch/manual/mdc.html),
and Application Insights Java 3.0 will automatically capture those MDC properties as custom dimensions
on your trace and exception telemetry.

### Send custom telemetry using the 2.x SDK

Add `applicationinsights-core-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-core</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

Create a TelemetryClient:

  ```java
static final TelemetryClient telemetryClient = new TelemetryClient();
```

and use that to send custom telemetry:

##### Events

```java
telemetryClient.trackEvent("WinGame");
```

##### Metrics

```java
telemetryClient.trackMetric("queueLength", 42.0);
```

##### Dependencies

```java
boolean success = false;
long startTime = System.currentTimeMillis();
try {
    success = dependency.call();
} finally {
    long endTime = System.currentTimeMillis();
    RemoteDependencyTelemetry telemetry = new RemoteDependencyTelemetry();
    telemetry.setSuccess(success);
    telemetry.setTimestamp(new Date(startTime));
    telemetry.setDuration(new Duration(endTime - startTime));
    telemetryClient.trackDependency(telemetry);
}
```

##### Logs

```java
telemetryClient.trackTrace(message, SeverityLevel.Warning, properties);
```

##### Exceptions

```java
try {
    ...
} catch (Exception e) {
    telemetryClient.trackException(e);
}
```

### Add request custom dimensions using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.2 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and add custom dimensions in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
requestTelemetry.getProperties().put("mydimension", "myvalue");
```

### Set the request telemetry user_Id using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.2 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and set the `user_Id` in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
requestTelemetry.getContext().getUser().setId("myuser");
```

### Override the request telemetry name using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.2 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and set the name in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
requestTelemetry.setName("myname");
```

### Get the request telemetry Id and the operation Id using the 2.x SDK

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only in 3.0.3 and later

Add `applicationinsights-web-2.6.2.jar` to your application (all 2.x versions are supported by Application Insights Java 3.0, but it's worth using the latest if you have a choice):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
  <version>2.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

and get the request telemetry Id and the operation Id in your code:

```java
import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.web.internal.ThreadContext;

RequestTelemetry requestTelemetry = ThreadContext.getRequestTelemetryContext().getHttpRequestTelemetry();
String requestId = requestTelemetry.getId();
String operationId = requestTelemetry.getContext().getOperation().getId();
```
