articles/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-gpu-monitoring.md, before:

---
title: Configure GPU monitoring with Azure Monitor for containers | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes how you can configure monitoring Kubernetes clusters with NVIDIA and AMD GPU enabled nodes with Azure Monitor for containers.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/27/2020
---

# Configure GPU monitoring with Azure Monitor for containers

Starting with agent version *ciprod03022019*, Azure monitor for containers integrated agent now supports monitoring GPU (graphical processing units) usage on GPU-aware Kubernetes cluster nodes, and monitor pods/containers requesting and using GPU resources.

## Supported GPU vendors

Azure Monitor for Containers supports monitoring GPU clusters from following GPU vendors:

- [NVIDIA](https://developer.nvidia.com/kubernetes-gpu)

- [AMD](https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/k8s-device-plugin)

Azure Monitor for containers automatically starts monitoring GPU usage on nodes, and GPU requesting pods and workloads by collecting the following metrics at 60sec intervals and storing them in the **InsightMetrics** table.

>[!NOTE]
>After provisioning cluster with GPU nodes, ensure that [GPU driver](../../aks/gpu-cluster.md) is installed as required by AKS to run GPU workloads. Azure Monitor for Containers collect GPU metrics through GPU driver pods running in the node. 

|Metric name |Metric dimension (tags) |Description |
|------------|------------------------|------------|
|containerGpuDutyCycle |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName, gpuId, gpuModel, gpuVendor|Percentage of time over the past sample period (60 seconds) during which GPU was busy/actively processing for a container. Duty cycle is a number between 1 and 100. |
|containerGpuLimits |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName |Each container can specify limits as one or more GPUs. It is not possible to request or limit a fraction of a GPU. |
|containerGpuRequests |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName |Each container can request one or more GPUs. It is not possible to request or limit a fraction of a GPU.|
|containerGpumemoryTotalBytes |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName, gpuId, gpuModel, gpuVendor |Amount of GPU Memory in bytes available to use for a specific container. |
|containerGpumemoryUsedBytes |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName, gpuId, gpuModel, gpuVendor |Amount of GPU Memory in bytes used by a specific container. |
|nodeGpuAllocatable |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, gpuVendor |Number of GPUs in a node that can be used by Kubernetes. |
|nodeGpuCapacity |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, gpuVendor |Total Number of GPUs in a node. |

## GPU performance charts 

Azure Monitor for containers includes pre-configured charts for the metrics listed earlier in the table as a GPU workbook for every cluster. See [Workbooks in Azure Monitor for containers](../insights/container-insights-reports.md) for a description of the workbooks available for Azure Monitor for containers.

## Next steps

- See [Use GPUs for compute-intensive workloads on Azure Kubernetes Service](../../aks/gpu-cluster.md) (AKS) to learn how to deploy an AKS cluster that includes GPU-enabled nodes.

- Learn more about [GPU Optimized VM SKUs in Microsoft Azure](../../virtual-machines/sizes-gpu.md).

- Review [GPU support in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-gpus/scheduling-gpus/) to learn more about Kubernetes experimental support for managing GPUs across one or more nodes in a cluster.

Commit message:

Rename Azure Monitor for containers to insights

articles/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-gpu-monitoring.md, after:

---
title: Configure GPU monitoring with Container insights | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes how you can configure monitoring Kubernetes clusters with NVIDIA and AMD GPU enabled nodes with Container insights.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/27/2020
---

# Configure GPU monitoring with Container insights

Starting with agent version *ciprod03022019*, Container insights integrated agent now supports monitoring GPU (graphical processing units) usage on GPU-aware Kubernetes cluster nodes, and monitor pods/containers requesting and using GPU resources.

## Supported GPU vendors

Container insights supports monitoring GPU clusters from following GPU vendors:

- [NVIDIA](https://developer.nvidia.com/kubernetes-gpu)

- [AMD](https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/k8s-device-plugin)

Container insights automatically starts monitoring GPU usage on nodes, and GPU requesting pods and workloads by collecting the following metrics at 60sec intervals and storing them in the **InsightMetrics** table.

>[!NOTE]
>After provisioning cluster with GPU nodes, ensure that [GPU driver](../../aks/gpu-cluster.md) is installed as required by AKS to run GPU workloads. Container insights collect GPU metrics through GPU driver pods running in the node. 

|Metric name |Metric dimension (tags) |Description |
|------------|------------------------|------------|
|containerGpuDutyCycle |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName, gpuId, gpuModel, gpuVendor|Percentage of time over the past sample period (60 seconds) during which GPU was busy/actively processing for a container. Duty cycle is a number between 1 and 100. |
|containerGpuLimits |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName |Each container can specify limits as one or more GPUs. It is not possible to request or limit a fraction of a GPU. |
|containerGpuRequests |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName |Each container can request one or more GPUs. It is not possible to request or limit a fraction of a GPU.|
|containerGpumemoryTotalBytes |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName, gpuId, gpuModel, gpuVendor |Amount of GPU Memory in bytes available to use for a specific container. |
|containerGpumemoryUsedBytes |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, containerName, gpuId, gpuModel, gpuVendor |Amount of GPU Memory in bytes used by a specific container. |
|nodeGpuAllocatable |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, gpuVendor |Number of GPUs in a node that can be used by Kubernetes. |
|nodeGpuCapacity |container.azm.ms/clusterId, container.azm.ms/clusterName, gpuVendor |Total Number of GPUs in a node. |

## GPU performance charts 

Container insights includes pre-configured charts for the metrics listed earlier in the table as a GPU workbook for every cluster. See [Workbooks in Container insights](../insights/container-insights-reports.md) for a description of the workbooks available for Container insights.

## Next steps

- See [Use GPUs for compute-intensive workloads on Azure Kubernetes Service](../../aks/gpu-cluster.md) (AKS) to learn how to deploy an AKS cluster that includes GPU-enabled nodes.

- Learn more about [GPU Optimized VM SKUs in Microsoft Azure](../../virtual-machines/sizes-gpu.md).

- Review [GPU support in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-gpus/scheduling-gpus/) to learn more about Kubernetes experimental support for managing GPUs across one or more nodes in a cluster.
