articles/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-persistent-volumes.md, before:

---
title: Configure PV monitoring with Azure Monitor for containers | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes how you can configure monitoring Kubernetes clusters with persistent volumes with Azure Monitor for containers.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/20/2020
---

# Configure PV monitoring with Azure Monitor for containers

Starting with agent version *ciprod10052020*, Azure Monitor for containers integrated agent now supports monitoring PV (persistent volume) usage.

## PV metrics

Azure Monitor for containers automatically starts monitoring PV by collecting the following metrics at 60sec intervals and storing them in the **InsightMetrics** table.

|Metric name |Metric dimension (tags) |Description |
|------------|------------------------|------------|
| `pvUsedBytes`|`container.azm.ms/pv`|Used space in bytes for a specific persistent volume with a claim used by a specific pod. `pvCapacityBytes` is folded in as a dimension in the Tags field to reduce data ingestion cost and to simplify queries.|

## Monitor Persistent Volumes

Azure Monitor for containers includes pre-configured charts for this metric in a workbook for every cluster. You can find the charts in the Persistent Volume tab of the **Workload Details** workbook directly from an AKS cluster by selecting Workbooks from the left-hand pane, and from the **View Workbooks** drop-down list in the Insight. You can also enable a recommended alert for PV usage, as well as query these metrics in Log Analytics.  

![Azure Monitor PV workload workbook example](./media/container-insights-persistent-volumes/pv-workload-example.PNG)

## Next steps

- Learn more about collected PV metrics [here](./container-insights-agent-config.md).

Commit message:

Rename Azure Monitor for containers to insights

articles/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-persistent-volumes.md, after:

---
title: Configure PV monitoring with Container insights | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes how you can configure monitoring Kubernetes clusters with persistent volumes with Container insights.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/20/2020
---

# Configure PV monitoring with Container insights

Starting with agent version *ciprod10052020*, Container insights integrated agent now supports monitoring PV (persistent volume) usage.

## PV metrics

Container insights automatically starts monitoring PV by collecting the following metrics at 60sec intervals and storing them in the **InsightMetrics** table.

|Metric name |Metric dimension (tags) |Description |
|------------|------------------------|------------|
| `pvUsedBytes`|`container.azm.ms/pv`|Used space in bytes for a specific persistent volume with a claim used by a specific pod. `pvCapacityBytes` is folded in as a dimension in the Tags field to reduce data ingestion cost and to simplify queries.|

## Monitor Persistent Volumes

Container insights includes pre-configured charts for this metric in a workbook for every cluster. You can find the charts in the Persistent Volume tab of the **Workload Details** workbook directly from an AKS cluster by selecting Workbooks from the left-hand pane, and from the **View Workbooks** drop-down list in the Insight. You can also enable a recommended alert for PV usage, as well as query these metrics in Log Analytics.  

![Azure Monitor PV workload workbook example](./media/container-insights-persistent-volumes/pv-workload-example.PNG)

## Next steps

- Learn more about collected PV metrics [here](./container-insights-agent-config.md).
