---
title: View live data with Container insights
description: This article describes the real-time view of Kubernetes logs, events, and pod metrics without using kubectl in Container insights.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 08/25/2025
ms.custom: references_regions
ms.reviewer: aul
---

# View Kubernetes events and metrics in real time

The Live Data feature in Container insights gives you direct access to your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) container logs (stdout/stderror), events, and pod metrics. It exposes direct access to `kubectl logs -c`, `kubectl get` events, and `kubectl top pods`. A console pane shows the logs, events, and metrics generated by the container engine to help with troubleshooting issues in real time.

> [!NOTE]
> AKS uses [Kubernetes cluster-level logging architectures](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#cluster-level-logging-architectures). The container logs are located inside `/var/log/containers` on the node. To access a node, see [Connect to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster nodes](/azure/aks/node-access).

For help with setting up or troubleshooting the Live Data feature, see the [Setup guide](container-insights-livedata-setup.md). This feature directly accesses the Kubernetes API. For more information about the authentication model, see [The Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

## View AKS resources live logs

> [!NOTE]
> You must be on a machine on the same private network to access live logs from a private cluster.

To view the live logs for pods, deployments, replica sets, stateful sets, daemon sets, jobs, or cron jobs with or without Container insights from the AKS resource view:

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to your AKS cluster resource.
1. From the service menu, under **Kubernetes resources**, select **Workloads**.
1. Select a pod, deployment, replica set, stateful set, daemon set, or job from the respective tab.
1. From the overview pane, select **Live Logs**, and then select a pod to start collecting the live data.

## View live events and metrics

You can view real-time event and metric data as it's generated by the container engine when you select a container, pod, node, replica set, stateful set, daemon set, job, cron job, or deployment.

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to your AKS cluster resource.
1. From your AKS cluster in the Azure portal, select **Monitor**.
1. Select an object from the **Nodes**, **Controllers**, or **Containers** tab.
1. From the overview pane, select **Live Events** or **Live Metrics**. Live metrics are only available from the **Nodes** or **Controllers** view when a **Pod** is selected. If the AKS cluster is configured with single sign-on by using Microsoft Entra ID, you're prompted to authenticate on first use during that bro1wser session. Select your account and finish authentication with Azure.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/view-live-events.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Live Events pane in the Azure portal." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/view-live-events.png":::

> [!NOTE]
> To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select **View Events in Log Analytics**. The log search results potentially show **Nodes**, **Daemon Sets**, **Replica Sets**, **Stateful Sets**, **Jobs**, **Cron Jobs**, **Pods**, and **Containers**. These logs might no longer exist. The log search results for **Stateful Sets** shows the data for the pods in a stateful set. Attempting to search logs for a container that isn't available in `kubectl` will also fail here. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container insights](container-insights-log-query.md).

## Use live data views

The following sections describe functionality that you can use in the different live data views.

### Filter events

While you view events, you can also limit the results using the pill below the search bar. Depending on the resource you select, the pill lists a node, pod, namespace, or cluster to choose from.

### Search

The Live Data feature includes search functionality. In the **Search** box, you can filter results by entering a keyword or term. Any matching results are highlighted to allow quick review. While you view the events, you can also limit the results using the **Filter** feature below the search bar. Depending on what resource you've selected, you can choose from a node, pod, namespace, or cluster.

### Scroll, lock, and pause

To suspend autoscroll and control the behavior of the tab so that you can manually scroll through the new data read, select the **Scroll** option. To reenable autoscroll, select **Scroll** again. You can also pause retrieval of log or event data by selecting the **Pause** option. When you're ready to resume, select **Play**.

Suspend or pause autoscroll for only a short period of time while you're troubleshooting an issue. These requests might affect the availability and throttling of the Kubernetes API on your cluster.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> No data is stored permanently during the operation of this feature. All information captured during the session is deleted when you close your browser or navigate away from it. Data only remains present for visualization inside the five-minute window of the metrics feature. Any metrics older than five minutes are also deleted. The Live Data buffer queries within reasonable memory usage limits.


## Next steps

- To continue learning how to use Azure Monitor and monitor other aspects of your AKS cluster, see [View Azure Kubernetes Service health](container-insights-analyze.md).
- To see predefined queries and examples to create alerts and visualizations or perform further analysis of your clusters, see [How to query logs from Container insights](container-insights-log-query.md).
